Q: What is the Solana Foundation doing to measure the emissions of the blockchain? 
A:"The Solana Foundation is leading the charge by making Solana the first major smart-contract blockchain to have its emissions measured in real time. The emissions tracker was developed in collaboration with Trycarbonara, a carbon data platform, and embeds software directly on Solana nodes to provide the most comprehensive and accurate measurement of the blockchain’s footprint to date."

Q: What type of data is included in the emissions tracker?
A: "The data set is detail-rich, open, and free to use, making it possible to scrutinize the sources of network emissions down to the validator level. This data includes emissions measurement of RPC nodes via instrumentation of the underlying hardware, emissions granularity at the server level incorporating geolocation of validator and RPC nodes, marginal (or consequential) emissions based on the incremental emissions impact of new demand as it relates to the overall distribution of grid supply, embodied emissions based on the manufacturing, transportation, and end-of-life management of the hardware infrastructure of the Solana Network, and Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) which describes the overall efficiency of a data center."

Q: What is the carbon footprint of the Solana network?
A: "The data set is detail-rich, open, and free to use, making it possible to scrutinize the sources of network emissions down to the validator level. This allows validators and ecosystem projects and teams to look at individual contributions to the network’s carbon footprint and explore mitigation strategies. Below is an estimate of the network’s carbon emissions in the past year (the period between April 1, 2022 - March 31, 2023): Energy use per transaction (voting + non-voting transactions): 0.879k J; Total Carbon Footprint (average emissions): 10,651.2 tCO2; Total number of nodes (validators and RPC nodes): 3,511; Total energy consumption in MWh: 26,514.1 MWh."